---
title: "devlog #01 - First log!"
date: 2024-04-24 14:50:00 +/-TTTT
categories: [devlog]
---

_Last updated: 2024-04-24_ ⌛

I have been planning on creating a library for quantitative finance for a while now. 
I have been working on a few projects that require a lot of the same code,
and I thought it would be a good idea to create a library that could be used across all of them.

Overall, I have tried to organize my thoughts and most of my code all within the same repository, 
but mostly failed in keeping track of updates and changes.

Recently I came across a game developer that suggested using devlogs to keep track of project requirements,
as well as for self-motivation and organization. I thought it was a great idea and decided to give it a try.


## Current status

I have been working on the library for a few weeks now, and I have a few modules already implemented.
They are mostly core structures, such as `History`, `Strategy` and `Interface`.
The overall structure of the library is still a bit messy, but I am working on it.

I have also been working on a few strategies that I plan to implement in the library,
such as a simple moving average strategy and a momentum strategy.

## Next steps

Since the API for YFinance is finished, I plan to finish the API for Interactive Brokers.
The library is still missing some core metric functionalities, 
such as continuous returns and starting with 0 valued portfolios.

Also, I believe that making some tutorials on how to use the library would be a good idea. 
Both for publicizing the library and for my own understanding of the code.


## Conclusion

I am very excited about this project and I hope to keep working on it for a long time.
Give me some feedback if you have any ideas or suggestions! 😄
